With all of the discussion around wealth inequality, capitalism, and "billionaire's shouldn't exist", I figured that right now would be a good time to write a blog post series on the mechanics of economics and finance.

Many people are upset about the wealth inequality situation in America, and if all you hear is "X has a billion dollars" and put that fact side by side with "Y% of Americans have trouble making ends meet", it would be hard not to have the idea that "Why can't we take the money from X and give it to the Y%?" This is an excellent question. The short answer is that it probably won't fix what you want it to fix and will likely create more problems in the process. The long answer is the purpose of this series.

I want to be clear though. I am NOT saying that the discussion around how to fix poverty is something we shouldn't have. I think any patriotic American should be interested in creating a world where people genuinely have equal opportunity. My goal with this post series is to elucidate how money, economies, trade, finance, leverage, debt and equity work, so that those of you who really do want to fix this, can advocate for solutions that would be able to do more than just superficially cover up the problem. After all, making rich people poor is one way to solve inequality.

Why should you listen to me? My day jobs have involved working on the technical side of Bitcoin for about 3 years now, and while my primary area of expertise is definitely software systems engineering, I am far from an amateur on this topic. I am also no fan of appeals to authority as an argument, so I intend to make all of my claims able to stand on their own without hand-waving. I may make mistakes at times, but I do my best to describe these concepts as accurately as I can. However, since mistakes are still possible, if you ever believe that something I was talking about was incorrect, I invite you to point it out.

Finally, I want to reiterate that my main goal here is the education of the *mechanics* (aka how it works) of finance and economics, not to make specific policy recommendations. At times these things will be so closely tied that I cannot avoid implying a policy recommendation, but I mostly just want to disseminate knowledge that will hopefully elevate the discourse around the economic problems of our time.

That's it for the intro. The next post that I will be making is going to talk about consumer goods vs capital goods and the process of capital formation.
